

EDWIN CHEAT SHEET
(keep under your pillow)

6.090, IAP 2005



Reading Edwin key combinations:
	C-x					Ctrl+x
	M-x					Alt+x
	C-x, y					Ctrl+x, release both, y
	C-M-x					Ctrl+Alt+x

Stuff You *Need* to Know:
	Starting Edwin				Start Menu > MIT Scheme > Edwin
	Quitting Edwin				C-x, C-c
	Opening a file				C-x, C-f
	Closing a file (aka buffer)		C-x, k
	Evaluate current expression 		C-x, C-e
	(expression ending just before 
	insertion point)
	Evaluate entire buffer
	(works only on Scheme files!)		M-o

The Edwin Window and Scheme:
	When you start it, the Edwin window looks like a plain text
	editor. It has a large blank area for entering text, one black
	line at the bottom with some information displayed (the modeline),
	and a blank white line below that (the minibuffer). 

	The text area
		is where the file you're viewing shows up. You can edit the
		file here, with the usual keys (up, down, page up, left... you
		get the idea).

	The modeline
		displays the name of the current buffer (file), your position
		in it, and the kind of file Edwin thinks it is (text, scheme
		code etc.).

	The minibuffer 
		is where you interact with Edwin's commands. For example, when
		you press C-x, C-f to open a file, you enter the filename in
		the minibuffer.

	Edwin is more than just an editor, though. It also features a
	Scheme evaluator, to which it can send your code. So when you
	press C-x, C-e at the end of an expression, it gets evaluated by
	this evaluator (more on evaluators and evaluation in class).

	Try out the key combinations below to see what they do. Don't try
	to memorize them. Your finger muscles will learn them as time goes
	on :-)

Inessential Edwin:
	Editing
	Marking/selecting text			Go to one end of the block, press 
					  	C-space, go to the other end. You won't
						see any visual indication of the 
						selection.
	Cut					C-w
	Copy					M-w
	Paste					C-y
	Cut from point to end of like		C-k

	Multiple Windows and Buffers
	Switch buffer	 		  	C-x, b
	Switch window				C-x, o
	Split window vertically			C-x, 2
	Split window horizontally		C-x, 3
	Delete current split			C-x, 0
	Create new frame (window)		C-x, 5, 2
	Delete current frame			C-x, 5, 0

Interactive Scheme:
	When you are in the buffer called *scheme*, everything you type goes
	directly to the evaluator, and the results are displayed below your
	expressions. When you make an error, the evaluator gives you a set of
	choices to help you debug your code. Usually, it is best to type (restart 1)
	at the next prompt to abort the current evaluation, so you can go back and
	examine your code to see what went wrong. For more advanced debugging tools,
	talk to an LA.

